Document KeyframeEffect.pseudoElement (#25382)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/keyframeeffect/pseudoelement/index.md

---
title: KeyframeEffect.pseudoElement
slug: Web/API/KeyframeEffect/pseudoElement
page-type: web-api-instance-property
browser-compat: api.KeyframeEffect.pseudoElement
---

{{ APIRef("Web Animations API") }}

> The **`pseudoElement`** property of a {{domxref("KeyframeEffect")}} interface represis a string representing the pseudo-element being animated. It may be `null` for animations that do not target a pseudo-element. It performs as both a getter and a setter, except with animations and transitions generated by CSS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`pseudoElement`** property of a {{domxref("KeyframeEffect")}} interface represents a string representing the pseudo-element being animated. It may be `null` for animations not targeting a pseudo-element. It performs as both a getter and a setter, except with animations and transitions generated by CSS.
```

> The **`pseudoElement`** property of a {{domxref("KeyframeEffect")}} interface represis a string representing the pseudo-element being animated. It may be `null` for animations that do not target a pseudo-element. It performs as both a getter and a setter, except with animations and transitions generated by CSS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **`pseudoElement`** property of a {{domxref("KeyframeEffect")}} interface is a string representing the pseudo-element being animated. It may be `null` for animations that do not target a pseudo-element. It performs as both a getter and a setter, except with animations and transitions generated by CSS.
```

Reviewer: what does it do with animations and transitions generated by CSS?

Reviewer: if it does apply to css animations, maybe:

```suggestion
The **`pseudoElement`** property of a {{domxref("KeyframeEffect")}} interface is a getter and a setter representing the pseudo-element being animated with {{domxref("Element.animate")}}. It may be `null` for animations that do not target a pseudo-element. It does not apply to animations and transitions generated by CSS.
```

> > **Note:** If set to the legacy single-colon syntax of {{cssxref("::before", ":before")}}, {{cssxref("::after", ":after")}}, {{cssxref("::first-letter", ":first-letter")}}, or {{cssxref("::first-line", ":first-line")}}, the string is transformed into its double-colon modern version ( {{cssxref("::before")}}, {{cssxref("::after")}}, {{cssxref("::first-letter")}}, and {{cssxref("::first-line")}}, respectively).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** If set to the legacy single-colon syntax of {{cssxref("::before", ":before")}}, {{cssxref("::after", ":after")}}, {{cssxref("::first-letter", ":first-letter")}}, or {{cssxref("::first-line", ":first-line")}}, the string is transformed into its double-colon modern version ({{cssxref("::before")}}, {{cssxref("::after")}}, {{cssxref("::first-letter")}}, and {{cssxref("::first-line")}}, respectively).
```

## Value

A string or `null`.

## Exceptions

- `SyntaxError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}

>   - : Thrown when trying to set this property to an invalid pseudo-element. The property is then left unchanged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Thrown when setting `animation.effect.pseudoElement` on an element that is not a valid pseudo-element. The property is then left unchanged.
```

Reviewer: Is it an element that is not a pseudoelement, a valid pseudo-element that doesn't exist, or an invalid pseudo-element, such as `:placeholder` (it's supposed to be `::placeholder`), or all three?

Author: Not sure if the second, _a valid pseudo-element that doesn't exist_, is possible? Do you have an example?

Yes, for the two others.

Note that `animation.effect.pseudoElement` is completely unclear to me. At that point in the page, there is no variable `animation`. I think this property is clear enough as the page is about `pseudoElement`.

Author: ```suggestion
  - : Thrown when trying to set this property to an element, an invalid pseudo-element (either non-existent or misspelled). The property is then left unchanged.
```

## Examples

```html
<div id="text">Some text</div>
<pre id="log"></pre>
```

```css
#text::after {
  content: "⭐";

>   display: inline-block; /* Needed as transform: can't be used on an inline element */

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  display: inline-block; /* Needed as the `transform` property does not apply to inline elements */
```

}
#text::before {
  content: "😊";
  display: inline-block;
}
```

```js
const log = document.getElementById("log");
const text = document.getElementById("text");

> // Create the keyyframe and launch the animation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Create the keyframe and launch the animation
```

const animation = text.animate(
  [
    { transform: "rotate(0)" },
    { transform: "rotate(180deg)" },
    { transform: "rotate(360deg)" },
  ],
  { duration: 3000, iterations: Infinity, pseudoElement: "::after" }
);

// Get the value of KeyframeEffect.pseudoElement
function logPseudoElement() {
  const keyframeEffect = animation.effect;
  log.textContent = `Value of pseudoElement animated: ${keyframeEffect.pseudoElement}`;
  requestAnimationFrame(logPseudoElement);
}

// Every 6 seconds, switch the pseudo-element animated
function switchPseudoElement() {
  const keyframeEffect = animation.effect;
  keyframeEffect.pseudoElement =

>     keyframeEffect.pseudoElement === "::after" ? "::before" : "::after";

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ( keyframeEffect.pseudoElement === "::after" ) ? "::before" : "::after";
```

Author: This has been fixed by Prettier. And will be fixed again once automated.

Reviewer: bummer that prettier doesn't put parens around ternary conditions :(
